# Minio File Upload with React and NodeJS
This project is a simple implementation for testing file uploads using Minio as an object storage service and React for the frontend. It demonstrates how to initialize a Minio bucket, generate presigned URLs for file uploads, and integrate these functionalities with a React application.

## Features
- Minio Setup: Initialize buckets and manage storage.
- Presigned URLs: Generate presigned URLs for secure file uploads.
- React Frontend: A simple interface for uploading files.

## Prerequisites
- Node.js and npm
- Minio server 
- React

## Getting Started
1. Clone the Repository
   
```bash
git clone https://github.com/prarthavipatnekar/minio-integration.git
cd server
```
2. Install Dependencies
Navigate to the project directory and install the required dependencies.
```bash
npm install
```

3. Configure Minio
Edit the config.js file in the root directory and add your Minio configuration:

``` bash
// config.js
exports.minio = {
    endPoint: 'play.min.io',
    port: 9000,
    useSSL: true,
    accessKey: YOUR_ACCESS_KEY,
    secretKey: YOUR_SECRET_TOKEN
};
```

4. Initialize the Bucket
Use the initializeBucket function to create a bucket if it doesn't exist:
``` bash
const { initializeBucket } = require('./minioUtils');
initializeBucket('your-bucket-name');
```

6. Run the Server
Start the server to handle requests for presigned URLs:
``` bash
node server.js
```

6. React Client
Navigate to the client/file-uploader directory, install dependencies, and start the React app:
``` bash
cd client/file-uploader
npm install
npm start
```

## Usage

### Backend
- initializeBucket(bucketName = 'default'): Initializes a bucket in Minio.
- getPresignedUrl(req, res): Generates a presigned URL for uploading a file.
- uploadFile(req, res): Placeholder for handling file uploads.
  
### Frontend
The React frontend provides a simple interface for selecting a file and uploading it using the presigned URL generated by the backend.

### Key Functions
- handleFileChange: Handles the file input change event.
- getNewUrl: Fetches a presigned URL from the server for uploading or downloading files.
- handleUpload: Uploads the selected file using the presigned URL.
- handleDownload: Downloads the uploaded file using the presigned URL.

## Contributing
Feel free to fork this repository, open issues, or submit pull requests. Contributions are welcome!
